Make Sidekiq workers small and atomic (#138)
BiggerPockets/patterns: _patterns/make-small-atomic-sidekiq-workers.md

  include Sidekiq::Worker

  def perform(lead_bundle_subscription_id)
    Rails.error.handle(ActiveRecord::RecordNotFound) do
      lead_bundle_subscription = LeadBundleSubscription.find(lead_bundle_subscription_id)
      if lead_bundle_subscription.pause_end_date.past?
        lead_bundle_subscription.unpause!
      else
        lead_bundle_subscription.pause!
      end
    end
  end
end
```

## Best

```ruby
class ActivateOrPauseJob
  include Sidekiq::Worker

  def perform
    # Use #in_batches and #perform_bulk for performant queries and minimise Redis round trips
    LeadBundleSubscription.with_pause_start_date.in_the_past.in_batches do |subscriptions_batch|
      ActivateJob.perform_bulk(subscriptions_batch.ids.zip)
    end

    LeadBundleSubscription.with_pause_start_date.in_the_future.in_batches do |subscriptions_batch|
      PauseJob.perform_bulk(subscriptions_batch.ids.zip)
    end
  end
end

# Small atomic jobs
class PauseJob
  include Sidekiq::Worker

  def perform(lead_bundle_subscription_id)
    Rails.error.handle(ActiveRecord::RecordNotFound) do
      LeadBundleSubscription.find(lead_bundle_subscription_id).pause!
    end
  end
end

class ActivateJob

>   include Sidekiq::Worker

Reviewer: Total nit, but [Sidekiq's maintainer now recommends](https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq/blob/936846ad705ab9bd0553d078a890bb68dc7a82d3/lib/sidekiq/worker_compatibility_alias.rb) using `Job` rather than `Worker`. `Worker` is just an alias for `Job`.

```suggestion
  include Sidekiq::Job
```

Author: Excellent point. Thank you! Done.

---
categories: Rails
name: Make small, atomic Sidekiq workers
---

> We had a [serious issue](https://www.notion.so/biggerpockets/Lead-bundle-subscriptions-incorrectly-pausing-or-resuming-298e9b328c834b148e3c79f12a686004) where users' subscriptions were not being updated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We had a [serious issue](https://www.notion.so/biggerpockets/Lead-bundle-subscriptions-incorrectly-pausing-or-resuming-298e9b328c834b148e3c79f12a686004) where user subscriptions were not being updated.
```

English is not my first language so this correction might be wrong.

* Break down Sidekiq workers into the smallest functional unit you can
* If one database failure can block other objects from being updated, that's a sign your design is wrong
* Each Sidekiq job should be able to error independently of others
* Use either batch jobs in Sidekiq enterprise or have one job enqueue others

## Bad

```ruby
module Companies
  module LeadBundleSubscriptions

>     class StartStopPauseJob

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    class PauseUnpauseJob
```
The original name is making this harder to read for me. I'm proposing you change it for this pattern not necessarily go change the code.

Author: 2b2fbcbe6e4f5e99ec6a4b01351933bab86e4570

      include Sidekiq::Worker

      def perform
        ::Companies::LeadBundleSubscription.find_each do |lead_bundle_subscription|

>           next unless lead_bundle_subscription.pause_start_date # This will make a huge database query, only to discard 90% of the records!

Reviewer 2: I suggest you put the comment on the line before, so its more readable, just like you did below.

Author: Done.

          # If one of these crashes, it aborts the whole job and a bunch of valid subscriptions aren't updated
          if lead_bundle_subscription.pause_end_date.past?
            lead_bundle_subscription.unpause!
          else
            lead_bundle_subscription.pause!
          end
        end
      end
    end
  end
end
```

## Better

```ruby
module Companies
  module LeadBundleSubscriptions

>     class StartStopPauseLeadBundleSubscriptionJob

Reviewer 2: _Pet peeve_
Seems more readable to me if have the `StartStopPauseJob` before the `StartStopPauseLeadBundleSubscriptionJob`.

Author: There are many, many things wrong with the namespacing of these modules. I've chosen to move past those naming issues as it's not part of the pattern.

If I were doing this correctly, I'd do this - `app namespace` -> `app` -> `domain object` -> `action`

```ruby
module Marketplace
  module AgentFinder
     module LeadBundleSubscription
       class UpdateActivationStatusJob
```

Reviewer 2: My comment is not regarding namespacing, the `StartStopPauseLeadBundleSubscriptionJob` and `StartStopPauseJob` classes are in the same scope. I think its easier to understand what's going on if we first see `StartStopPauseJob`.
But as I said before it's just a pet peeve, feel free to leave it as is if you don't agree.

Author: I see what you mean now! Great call. Funnily enough I was getting confused **reading my own examples** and your tip made it much easier. c2b31b8d74ec29c28b55f0cd4d454b42a0701d60

          if lead_bundle_subscription.pause_end_date.past?
            lead_bundle_subscription.unpause!
          else
            lead_bundle_subscription.pause!
          end
        end
      end
    end

    class StartStopPauseJob
      include Sidekiq::Worker

      def perform
        ::Companies::LeadBundleSubscription.with_pause_start_date.find_each do |lead_bundle_subscription|
          StartStopPauseLeadBundleSubscriptionJob.perform_async(lead_bundle_subscription.id)
        end
      end
    end
  end
end
```

## Best

```ruby
module Companies
  module LeadBundleSubscriptions
    class PauseJob
      include Sidekiq::Worker

      def perform(lead_bundle_subscription_id)
        Rails.error.handle(ActiveRecord::RecordNotFound) do
          ::Companies::LeadBundleSubscription.find(lead_bundle_subscription_id).pause!
        end
      end
    end

    class ActivateJob
      include Sidekiq::Worker

      def perform(lead_bundle_subscription_id)
        Rails.error.handle(ActiveRecord::RecordNotFound) do
          ::Companies::LeadBundleSubscription.find(lead_bundle_subscription_id).unpause!
        end
      end
    end

>     class StartStopPauseJob

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    class PauseOrActiveJob
```

Author: 2b2fbcbe6e4f5e99ec6a4b01351933bab86e4570

      include Sidekiq::Worker

      def perform
        ::Companies::LeadBundleSubscription.with_pause_start_date.in_the_past.find_each do |lead_bundle_subscription|
          ActivateJob.perform_async(lead_bundle_subscription.id)

>         end

Reviewer 3: Maybe its too much detail but example but this code would be more performant if it used `pluck(:id)`, for example something like:

```ruby
::Companies::LeadBundleSubscription.with_pause_start_date.in_the_past.in_batches.each do |subscriptions_batch|
  subscriptions_batch.pluck(:id).each do |subscription_id|
    ActivateJob.perform_async(subscription_id)
  end
end
```

It's also possible to use Batch Jobs 

```ruby
::Companies::LeadBundleSubscription.with_pause_start_date.in_the_past.in_batches.each do |subscriptions_batch|
  batch = Sidekiq::Batch.new
  batch.jobs do
    subscriptions_batch.pluck(:id).each do |subscription_id|
      ActivateJob.perform_async(subscription_id)
    end
  end
end
```

I guess I'm wondering if its worth fleshing this one out a bit since its considered the "Best"

Author: Super cool suggestions @karlentwistle - thank you. Updated!

---
categories: Rails
name: Make small, atomic Sidekiq workers
---

We had a [serious issue](https://www.notion.so/biggerpockets/Lead-bundle-subscriptions-incorrectly-pausing-or-resuming-298e9b328c834b148e3c79f12a686004) where user subscriptions were not being updated.

* Break down Sidekiq workers into the smallest functional unit you can
* If one database failure can block other objects from being updated, that's a sign your design is wrong
* Each Sidekiq job should be able to error independently of others
* Use either batch jobs in Sidekiq enterprise or have one job enqueue others

## Bad

```ruby
module Companies
  module LeadBundleSubscriptions

>     class StartStopPauseJob

Reviewer: I don't think that including the namespaces adds to the point that you're trying to make, and seem a bit like a distracting detail.

Author: Agreed. Good point. I'll cut the fat.

      include Sidekiq::Worker

      def perform
        ::Companies::LeadBundleSubscription.find_each do |lead_bundle_subscription|
          # ⚠️ This will make a huge database query, only to discard 90% of the records!
          next unless lead_bundle_subscription.pause_start_date

          # ⚠️ If any of these lines cause a crash, it aborts the whole job and valid subscriptions aren't updated
          if lead_bundle_subscription.pause_end_date.past?
            lead_bundle_subscription.unpause!
          else
            lead_bundle_subscription.pause!
          end
        end
      end
    end
  end
end
```

## Better

```ruby
module Companies
  module LeadBundleSubscriptions
    class StartStopPauseJob
      include Sidekiq::Worker

      def perform
        ::Companies::LeadBundleSubscription.with_pause_start_date.find_each do |lead_bundle_subscription|
          StartStopPauseSubscriptionJob.perform_async(lead_bundle_subscription.id)

>         end

Reviewer: StartStopPauseSubscriptionJob.perform_bulk(::Companies::LeadBundleSubscription.with_pause_start_date.ids.zip)

>         ::Companies::LeadBundleSubscription.with_pause_start_date.find_each do |lead_bundle_subscription|
>           StartStopPauseSubscriptionJob.perform_async(lead_bundle_subscription.id)
>         end

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        StartStopPauseSubscriptionJob.perform_bulk(::Companies::LeadBundleSubscription.with_pause_start_date.ids.zip)
```

Author: f02a69a9c48fa193889900ccd23bf863e4eca0fc

      end
    end

    class StartStopPauseSubscriptionJob
      include Sidekiq::Worker

      def perform(lead_bundle_subscription_id)
        Rails.error.handle(ActiveRecord::RecordNotFound) do
          lead_bundle_subscription = ::Companies::LeadBundleSubscription.find(lead_bundle_subscription_id)
          if lead_bundle_subscription.pause_end_date.past?
            lead_bundle_subscription.unpause!
          else
            lead_bundle_subscription.pause!
          end
        end
      end
    end
  end
end
```

## Best

```ruby
module Companies
  module LeadBundleSubscriptions

>     # Much better name. The opposite of pausing is activating.

Reviewer: This comment is very subjective. Naming is hard.

Author: Hmmm... not sure I agree but it's controversial so I'll take it out.

Author: f02a69a9c48fa193889900ccd23bf863e4eca0fc

    class ActivateOrPauseJob
      include Sidekiq::Worker

      def perform
        # Use #in_batches for performant queries

>         ::Companies::LeadBundleSubscription.with_pause_start_date.in_the_past.in_batches do |subscriptions_batch|

Reviewer: I recommend `find_each` rather than `in_batches`, especially since you're just looping through the batch, which is what `find_each` does.

Author: Although @karlentwistle gave me the exact opposite advice... @karlentwistle - maybe chime in here on your reasoning behind `#in_batches` ? I'm not precious either way TBH.

Reviewer 3: Oh, its because we want to do `subscriptions_batch.pluck(:id)` and I don't think possible with `find_each` https://discuss.rubyonrails.org/t/feature-proposal-use-find-each-find-in-batches-with-pluck/70764/6

Author: I think the reason @bockets thinking about this was that we're doing a `#perform_bulk` so it makes sense to do that on batches...

Reviewer: Yes, it makes sense to me now why it's the way it is.

          # Use Sidekiq Batch Jobs to reduce Redis queries

>           batch.jobs do

Reviewer: should this be subscription batches to match line 84?

Author: Nope. It's the API for [Sidekiq Batch Jobs](https://github.com/BiggerPockets/biggerpockets/pull/16629#pullrequestreview-1211732652)

Author: Don't need this now we're doing `#perform_bulk`...

            # #pluck only selects the id column saving memory and query execution time

>             subscriptions_batch.pluck(:id).each do |subscription_id|
>               ActivateJob.perform_async(subscription_id)
>             end

Reviewer: This uses only one network roundtrip, so the job will complete faster:

```suggestion
            ActivateJob.push_bulk(subscriptions_batch.pluck(:id))
```

Author: Woah! I'm learning sooo much about how to do things more efficiently... ❤️ thank you!

Author: f02a69a9c48fa193889900ccd23bf863e4eca0fc

          end
        end

        ::Companies::LeadBundleSubscription.with_pause_start_date.in_the_future.find_each do |subscriptions_batch|
          batch.jobs do

>             subscriptions_batch.pluck(:id).each do |subscription_id|
>               PauseJob.perform_async(subscription_id)
>             end

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            PauseJob.perform_bulk(subscriptions_batch.pluck(:id).zip)
```

Author: f02a69a9c48fa193889900ccd23bf863e4eca0fc

          end
        end
      end
    end

    class PauseJob
      include Sidekiq::Worker

      def perform(lead_bundle_subscription_id)
        Rails.error.handle(ActiveRecord::RecordNotFound) do
          ::Companies::LeadBundleSubscription.find(lead_bundle_subscription_id).pause!
        end
      end
    end

    class ActivateJob
      include Sidekiq::Worker

      def perform(lead_bundle_subscription_id)

>         Rails.error.handle(ActiveRecord::RecordNotFound) do
>           # Again, #activate! is more descriptive than #unpause!
>           ::Companies::LeadBundleSubscription.find(lead_bundle_subscription_id).activate!
>         end

Reviewer: The error handler does nothing, yea?

```suggestion
        # Again, #activate! is more descriptive than #unpause!
        ::Companies::LeadBundleSubscription.find_by(id: lead_bundle_subscription_id)&.activate!
```

Author: I don't understand your comment... yup, the handler catches record not found... do you mean I should exclude this for clarity?

Reviewer: I mean `find` raises an unnecessary exception and we should avoid doing nothing with exceptions. Using `find_by(id: ...)&.activate!` is more intentional and avoids using an exception for flow control.

Author: Hmmm... not sure I agree.

If the `LeadBundleSubscription` cannot be found, there's something wrong. And we should be notified that there's something wrong.

However, my code is actually wrong, because `Rails.error.handle` will swallow the error and only give a warning.

The solution is much simpler - get rid of the error handling entirely. Then `find` will blow up when the record can't be found (desired so we can debug why this happened) and Sentry will be notified.

Reviewer: Works for me!

---
categories: Rails

> name: Make small, atomic Sidekiq workers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
name: Make small, atomic Sidekiq jobs
```

Author: 1b0dff0

---

> We had a [serious issue](https://www.notion.so/biggerpockets/Lead-bundle-subscriptions-incorrectly-pausing-or-resuming-298e9b328c834b148e3c79f12a686004) where user subscriptions were not being updated.

Reviewer: I don't think we'd want to share this link on a pattern that's public. Doesn't make sense to go into this much detail on it, this is just a best practice for how to write jobs.

Author: 1b0dff0

> * Break down Sidekiq workers into the smallest functional unit you can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Break down Sidekiq jobs into the smallest functional unit you can
```

Author: 1b0dff0
